README.md, before:

# Politigraph

A (WIP) civic-initiated open API for Thai political data

To learn more about the data and API, visit the [documentations](https://politigraph.wevis.info/docs)

> [!WARNING]
> We are not responsible for any misinformation or consequence of any usage on our data. These open data are collected, transformed, validated, and published by us, a civil society, to push the open API standard in Thailand. We are not the official government institution who originally own and responsible in publishing these data. Please send us any feedback or suggestion via team@wevis.info or create an issue on GitHub.

## 1. Stack

- Nuxt + Nuxt Content
- Better-Auth
- GenQL
- Neo4JGraphQL + Apollo GraphQL Server

## 2. Routes and Deployment

Main routes of the web application:

- `/` A landing page for public
- `/admin` Admin panel for managing politigraph data (required an account)
- `/docs` Public documentations. Auto generated from markdown files in `/content/docs` folder.
- `/graphql` GraphQL endpoint and playground for querying and updating data.

https://politigraph.wevis.info will be deployed through GitHub Actions every time the repository code has updated.

## 3. Set Up Local Development

Following these steps will help you set up Politigraph on your local development environment.

### 3.1 Environment Variables

Add following variables to the `.env`

```env
NEO4J_USERNAME=neo4j
NEO4J_PASSWORD=<SOME_INITIAL_PASSWORD>
BETTER_AUTH_URL=http://localhost:3000
BETTER_AUTH_SECRET=<RANDOM_STRING>
```

Better-Auth secret can be obtained from Better-Auth's [Generate secret button](https://www.better-auth.com/docs/installation)

### 3.2 Start Neo4j Server

Using Docker Compose

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

Neo4j API will be running at `http://localhost:7687` with web UI at `http://localhost:7474`

Neo4j data is stored in `.neo4j` folder in your project root.

### 3.3 Start development server

Requires Node.js

```sh
npm i	# Install dependencies for the first time
npm run dev
```

Then politigraph will be accessible at `http://localhost:3000`

### 3.4 Create user account (for admin access)

You need to create an account first to login to the admin panel, by making a POST request to `/auth/sign-up/email` with the following body:

```json
{
	"name": "*****",
	"email": "*****",
	"password": "*****"
}
```

## 4. References

### 4.1 GraphQL API authentication

GraphQL required user account for **write** permission. To make an update to GraphQL outside the Politigraph website, you need to create an API key by logging in into the Admin Panel (/admin) > Profile Menu > API Keys. Then add `x-api-key: KEY_VALUE` to the header when making a request.

### 4.2 Tunneling to Neo4j on production server

To access Neo4j on the production on local environment

```shell
ssh -L 7687:localhost:7687 politigraph
ssh -L 7474:localhost:7474 politigraph
```

### 4.3 Dump production database to local

To make local neo4j have up-to-dated data, use rsync to download production database while local neo4j docker service in not running.

```shell
rsync -azvP --delete politigraph:/var/server/politigraph/neo4j/data .neo4j
```

Commit message:

chore: add database pull script

README.md, after:

# Politigraph

A (WIP) civic-initiated open API for Thai political data

To learn more about the data and API, visit the [documentations](https://politigraph.wevis.info/docs)

> [!WARNING]
> We are not responsible for any misinformation or consequence of any usage on our data. These open data are collected, transformed, validated, and published by us, a civil society, to push the open API standard in Thailand. We are not the official government institution who originally own and responsible in publishing these data. Please send us any feedback or suggestion via team@wevis.info or create an issue on GitHub.

## 1. Stack

- Nuxt + Nuxt Content
- Better-Auth
- GenQL
- Neo4JGraphQL + Apollo GraphQL Server

## 2. Routes and Deployment

Main routes of the web application:

- `/` A landing page for public
- `/admin` Admin panel for managing politigraph data (required an account)
- `/docs` Public documentations. Auto generated from markdown files in `/content/docs` folder.
- `/graphql` GraphQL endpoint and playground for querying and updating data.

https://politigraph.wevis.info will be deployed through GitHub Actions every time the repository code has updated.

## 3. Set Up Local Development

Following these steps will help you set up Politigraph on your local development environment.

### 3.1 Environment Variables

Add following variables to the `.env`

```env
NEO4J_USERNAME=neo4j
NEO4J_PASSWORD=<SOME_INITIAL_PASSWORD>
BETTER_AUTH_URL=http://localhost:3000
BETTER_AUTH_SECRET=<RANDOM_STRING>
```

Better-Auth secret can be obtained from Better-Auth's [Generate secret button](https://www.better-auth.com/docs/installation)

### 3.2 Start Neo4j Server

Using Docker Compose

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

Neo4j API will be running at `http://localhost:7687` with web UI at `http://localhost:7474`

Neo4j data is stored in `.neo4j` folder in your project root.

### 3.3 Start development server

Requires Node.js

```sh
npm i	# Install dependencies for the first time
npm run dev
```

Then politigraph will be accessible at `http://localhost:3000`

### 3.4 Create user account (for admin access)

You need to create an account first to login to the admin panel, by making a POST request to `/auth/sign-up/email` with the following body:

```json
{
	"name": "*****",
	"email": "*****",
	"password": "*****"
}
```

## 4. References

### 4.1 GraphQL API authentication

GraphQL required user account for **write** permission. To make an update to GraphQL outside the Politigraph website, you need to create an API key by logging in into the Admin Panel (/admin) > Profile Menu > API Keys. Then add `x-api-key: KEY_VALUE` to the header when making a request.

### 4.2 Dump production database to local

To make local neo4j have up-to-dated data, we have a script to use rsync to download production database while local neo4j docker service in not running:

```shell
npm run db:pull
```
